David Schaich (he): Okay, we should be
David Schaich (he): pretty much set up.
David Schaich (he): So, good morning, folks.  I hope the first week of the term
has gone well for you so far.
David Schaich (he): What we have
David Schaich (he): here is... something very much out of focus.
David Schaich (he): That's a bit better.
David Schaich (he): Thursday, at the start of February, and the
David Schaich (he): 6-digit code
David Schaich (he): for today is
David Schaich (he): 1, 4,
David Schaich (he): 3, 4, 2, 2.
David Schaich (he): And, it's
David Schaich (he): still not the
David Schaich (he): best focus there...
David Schaich (he): So the first tutorial for statistical physics. My understanding is that
David Schaich (he): tutorials are
David Schaich (he): supposed to shut up and let you have some of.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): I have
David Schaich (he): taken
David Schaich (he): some of the stuff that was in the lecture notes, and
David Schaich (he): chop it all into a
David Schaich (he): the tutorial activity for you to
David Schaich (he): work on Today I will be
David Schaich (he): uploaded
David Schaich (he): all of the model solutions for this activity, but it's still
David Schaich (he): useful for you to actually do it yourself. Is that how you you practice
David Schaich (he): doing statistical physics calculations, and depending on
David Schaich (he): how it goes for you today. There is not 105, but i'll keep an eye on
David Schaich (he): I'm. On my phone, depending on how you can, all
David Schaich (he): With this activity
David Schaich (he): you can start to encounter some of the Python programming that also focus on
David Schaich (he): a bit more detail on
David Schaich (he): computer lab on Tuesday and training for that computer project. Speaking of which
David Schaich (he): maybe I should
David Schaich (he): mentioned before we go on, that
David Schaich (he): the computer project is up and active for you to check out
David Schaich (he): in advance of Tuesday. So do when
David Schaich (he): little under 3 weeks.
David Schaich (he): and it
David Schaich (he): looks
David Schaich (he): maybe more substantial than it is
David Schaich (he): because it's got
David Schaich (he): a lot of
David Schaich (he): the usual instructions, but also
David Schaich (he): relevant background material that
David Schaich (he): hopefully, it will be useful to have
David Schaich (he): close to hand here in the
David Schaich (he): assignment itself, rather than hiding in
David Schaich (he): that demo.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): python programming or
David Schaich (he): elsewhere in the lecture notes. So 5
David Schaich (he): exercises which have
David Schaich (he): 3 weeks to do in those computer labs
David Schaich (he): the deadline.
David Schaich (he): It's not set When I requested it. It is actually just a couple of hours after they
David Schaich (he): that third computer lab. So ideally, it will have things mostly under control by the time you come in for that last one on
David Schaich (he): twenty-first of February itself.
David Schaich (he): And just
David Schaich (he): there we go and finish it already.
David Schaich (he): But
David Schaich (he): are there immediate questions about those logistics, or indeed anything we've seen over this week
David Schaich (he): before we jump into
David Schaich (he): little activity, for today is 2 to 0.
David Schaich (he): Not seeing any. I'll hop back here and point out that 6 digit covered again.
David Schaich (he): 1, 4, 3, 4, 2, 2.
You supposed to have that
David Schaich (he): you get off of this page
David Schaich (he): as the
David Schaich (he): activity
David Schaich (he): looking at what requires zooming out is
David Schaich (he): the game based on
David Schaich (he): the rule that we all that we saw
David Schaich (he): on Monday.
David Schaich (he): So this is
David Schaich (he): slightly edited
David Schaich (he): version of the
David Schaich (he): figure that I had up on Monday and scroll down there with some
David Schaich (he): still not great with this on this
David Schaich (he): here will
David Schaich (he): little green box highlighting, maybe.
David Schaich (he): Yeah, that is in the corresponding
David Schaich (he): place in the lecture notes.
David Schaich (he): just to brief briefly review what we have with the set up the standard roulette wheel has
David Schaich (he): 37 pockets, with 3 different colors. 18, red, 18, black.
David Schaich (he): and 0 is
David Schaich (he): the special green pocket. There, at the top
David Schaich (he): you spin the wheel, roll it all, and bet on which pocket that all ends up in as it slows down, it comes to a stop
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): a simple.
David Schaich (he): but that we couldn't imagine
David Schaich (he): computer. It's a simple example
David Schaich (he): in class earlier in the week
David Schaich (he): or 2.
David Schaich (he): Same place
David Schaich (he): the £5 bets
David Schaich (he): on every spin of the wheel.
David Schaich (he): This this
David Schaich (he): visible
David Schaich (he): to you.
David Schaich (he): Okay.
David Schaich (he): try again. Maybe you do better
David Schaich (he): so.
David Schaich (he): and we will bet.
David Schaich (he): say, on
David Schaich (he): black.
David Schaich (he): So a £5 bet that the ball ends up in one
to you
David Schaich (he): black pockets.
David Schaich (he): which is to say.
David Schaich (he): if the ball.
David Schaich (he): and so
David Schaich (he): in a black pocket
David Schaich (he): we will win
David Schaich (he): twice the amount we put in, so we get £10 back
David Schaich (he): in total. Otherwise, you know 5 time that is just lost.
David Schaich (he): Your question is.
David Schaich (he): What can we expect to?
David Schaich (he): We don't lose, as we repeat, these spins several times, getting into that
David Schaich (he): repetition
David Schaich (he): experiment that we have.
David Schaich (he): So.
David Schaich (he): switching back to
David Schaich (he): the canvas sites.
David Schaich (he): you may well have seen
David Schaich (he): the activity. That's
David Schaich (he): it, came up on one day which has
David Schaich (he): the sequence of
David Schaich (he): for
David Schaich (he): questions about this set up.
David Schaich (he): I can
David Schaich (he): zoom in on.
David Schaich (he): Okay, that's the maximum zoom
David Schaich (he): hopefully. That's
David Schaich (he): visible in the back. And if not
okay.
David Schaich (he): one copy of the print out here
David Schaich (he): a laptop, or if you have that handy.
David Schaich (he): So.
David Schaich (he): placing these £5 bits on black, we want to compute
David Schaich (he): the probabilities of winning and losing, and what we get.
David Schaich (he): as again each time.
David Schaich (he): and then start doing some computations of
David Schaich (he): the general expressions for both the probabilities that we win some number of times W out of.
David Schaich (he): and total spins
David Schaich (he): of the wheel, computing examples of those, seeing that they're all sensible.
David Schaich (he): and then eventually applying the central limit theorem
David Schaich (he): to this repeated experiment of placing that spinning wheel, getting some probabilistic outcome.
David Schaich (he): and seeing how well the central limit, theorem predicts the exact
David Schaich (he): probabilities and wins or losses that we can compute either explicitly for a small number in, or using a computer programming or a more arbitrary value.
David Schaich (he): and just before I pause the recording and let you
David Schaich (he): you know with it
David Schaich (he): you this these activities
David Schaich (he): i'll mention that
David Schaich (he): as we talked about on Tuesday. I believe the central limit theorem gives us a
David Schaich (he): probability distribution or a density.
David Schaich (he): so to actually extract
David Schaich (he): probabilities from that density that has to be integrated.
David Schaich (he): So that is what
David Schaich (he): this equation is representing here.
David Schaich (he): If we want the probability of
David Schaich (he): gaining some
David Schaich (he): some value corresponding to some number of wins.
David Schaich (he): Given the density from the central limit theorem we have to integrate that it can be done
David Schaich (he): either
David Schaich (he): analytically, numerically, or with some
David Schaich (he): approximations, for example, approximating this probability as a constants
David Schaich (he): within its limits of integration about the crudest approximation
David Schaich (he): we could have.
David Schaich (he): The integral, then just
David Schaich (he): turns into the product
David Schaich (he): of that constant probability times.
David Schaich (he): the delta she with
David Schaich (he): of the window being integrated over.
David Schaich (he): And
David Schaich (he): there are various ways you can
David Schaich (he): numerically evaluate.
David Schaich (he): I do that integral or.
David Schaich (he): yeah.
David Schaich (he): approximation to it
David Schaich (he): practical from Alpha just that websites can handle a numerical integral of this sort.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): depending on how you get on
next
David Schaich (he): 10 or 20 min. With these exercises we could see
David Schaich (he): some python code that has the advantage.
David Schaich (he): That's
David Schaich (he): this end. The total number of spins can be elected as a free parameter, Just read in and repeated automatically.
David Schaich (he): Any number you might be interested in
David Schaich (he): within reason, maybe
David Schaich (he): up to a 1 billion or a trillion.
David Schaich (he): One of the advantages of
David Schaich (he): programming solutions.
David Schaich (he): Is it out by hand, especially where you are.
David Schaich (he): But that is the
David Schaich (he): one step in this activity.
David Schaich (he): Also. See if anything is unclear about
David Schaich (he): what you
David Schaich (he): get to play with with this.
David Schaich (he): and not seeing any of
David Schaich (he): but you get off with it.
David Schaich (he): you know, with myself, and
David Schaich (he): check in after 10 min or so
David Schaich (he): to see
it.
David Schaich (he): I'll actually turn the
David Schaich (he): reporting that all there
David Schaich (he): for a few minutes.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): hop over 2 months.
David Schaich (he): These numerical calculations for the the integrations
David Schaich (he): they need to exit full screen
David Schaich (he): could be able to
David Schaich (he): well from Alpha
David Schaich (he): on buttons on this keyboard
David Schaich (he): to go from Alpha Plugin.
David Schaich (he): Our expression for
David Schaich (he): the probability of density
David Schaich (he): multiplied by
David Schaich (he): this Delta G, which I got to be 10,
David Schaich (he): maybe in the interest of wrapping up
David Schaich (he): more or less on time.
David Schaich (he): I will
David Schaich (he): head over to.
David Schaich (he): I can get this guy to respond. Okay, lost the assignment. But we don't
David Schaich (he): the links to
David Schaich (he): the logistics
David Schaich (he): where I can
David Schaich (he): get to
David Schaich (he): the Github repository over it in
David Schaich (he): some python code.
David Schaich (he): If it ever loads. That will do these computations.
David Schaich (he): I thought, it is
David Schaich (he): more than is muted for this.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): certainly sufficient.
David Schaich (he): if not necessary.
David Schaich (he): I realized that I may need to
David Schaich (he): log into
David Schaich (he): yet another
David Schaich (he): system here in order to run things.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): open up a new notebook.
David Schaich (he): grab the
David Schaich (he): raw Python code.
David Schaich (he): the Github Repository.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): I must be logged in
David Schaich (he): a
David Schaich (he): an issue because it's the more password.
David Schaich (he): So it's maybe
David Schaich (he): less of a
David Schaich (he): fun conclusion.
I was hoping for.
David Schaich (he): Everyone is demanding that I.
David Schaich (he): We have accounts.
David Schaich (he): So on this computer I'm.
David Schaich (he): not going to be able to.
We get code in time.
Yeah.
David Schaich (he): is probably not worth
David Schaich (he): looking at.
David Schaich (he): just as it is
David Schaich (he): so sorry about that. Maybe i'll record
David Schaich (he): little additional
David Schaich (he): video showing all how it works. And for you
David Schaich (he): my being.
David Schaich (he): It was
David Schaich (he): the results
David Schaich (he): that it gives just for
I wish.
David Schaich (he): look like this: the 6
David Schaich (he): probabilities
David Schaich (he): coming out with
David Schaich (he): direct or exact values, that all those
David Schaich (he): powers, of 18 over 37, and 1,937
coefficients.
circles.
David Schaich (he): and then
David Schaich (he): numerically integrating
David Schaich (he): prediction from the central limit theorem even for this small number of 5 spins.
David Schaich (he): we will
David Schaich (he): of science that in most cases are Google happen
David Schaich (he): with the exact circles
David Schaich (he): and the improved approximation that the probability of distribution is a constant
David Schaich (he): throughout
David Schaich (he): each of these
David Schaich (he): intervals. So
David Schaich (he): plus or minus 5, is a total of 10 for the game.
David Schaich (he): It's getting those red crosses
David Schaich (he): that are still in good agreement with the true values. So this is
David Schaich (he): something that
David Schaich (he): you can look at over the weekend, and
David Schaich (he): during the computer lab I have a chance to see what I thought in action. Starting off with the
David Schaich (he): looking at the demo and
David Schaich (he): computer project itself. So that's on Tuesday for Monday. We'll talk about random walks, of which
David Schaich (he): this from that game was actually an example of the right of my space.
David Schaich (he): So sorry about the
David Schaich (he): probably with showing off python here.
David Schaich (he): but hopefully
David Schaich (he): we have to play with it over the coming weeks.
David Schaich (he): I'll see you
David Schaich (he): on Monday.